---
title: Bylaws
layout: default
nav_order: 4
has_children: false
---

# CONSTITUTION AND BYLAWS OF THE INTERNATIONAL COMMITTEE FOR RADIONUCLIDE METROLOGY

**Adopted at the General Meeting in Salamanca, Spain**

**31 May 2019**

## Table of content <!-- omit in toc -->

- [1. Name and Membership](#1-name-and-membership)
- [2. Objectives](#2-objectives)
- [3. Membership and Rights and Obligations of Members](#3-membership-and-rights-and-obligations-ofmembers)
- [4. Organisation of ICRM](#4-organisation-oficrm)
- [5. Organisational Membership](#5-organisational-membership)
- [6. Election of Associate Members](#6-election-ofassociate-members)
- [7. General Meetings](#7-general-meetings)
- [8. Executive Board: Duties, Terms of Office, Nomination and Election](#8-executive-board-duties-terms-ofoffice-nomination-and-election)
- [9. Nominating Committee: Duties, Terms of Office, and Election](#9-nominating-committee-duties-terms-ofoffice-and-election)
- [10. Working Groups and Committees of ICRM](#10-working-groups-and-committees-oficrm)
- [11. Election of ICRM Officers](#11-election-oficrm-officers)
- [12. Amendments](#12-amendments)


## 1. Name and Membership

`1.1` — The name of the organisation is “International Committee for
Radionuclide Metrology”, hereinafter referred to as “ICRM” (See Note 1).

`1.2` — ICRM is an international association of radionuclide metrology
laboratories whose membership comprises appointed delegates of such laboratories
together with other scientists engaged in the study and applications of
radioactivity.

## 2. Objectives

`2.1` — The objectives of ICRM shall be to promote, through the active
participation of all its members, the advancement of radionuclide metrology in
the world-wide applications of radioactivity and to disseminate information
relating to, for example, new metrological methods or recent nuclear data.

## 3. Membership and Rights and Obligations of Members

`3.1` — ICRM shall comprise two types of membership: these shall be designated
“delegate member” or “delegate” and “associate member” or “associate”. In this
document “member (s)” shall refer collectively to both types of membership.

`3.2` — A delegate member shall be the person who represents a radionuclide
metrology laboratory or any other organisation that actively pursues the
objectives of ICRM. This delegate shall be appointed by his or her organisation,
to represent it in all its interactions with ICRM, by the procedure specified in
Section 5 of these bylaws, which also specifies the procedure for any change in
representation.

`3.3` — An associate member shall be a person who is recognised for his or her
special contributions to the work of the ICRM and its working groups or who has
indicated his or her willingness to serve in an ICRM organisation (clause 4.2),
and shall be appointed in accordance with Section 6.

`3.4` — Voting (See Note 2) at General Meetings of the members [Section 7] is
restricted to delegates.

`3.5` — Any matter to be decided by majority vote by the delegate members shall
be the subject of a resolution proposed by any member and seconded by a
delegate.

`3.6` — Each member of ICRM should receive notice by letter (See Note 3) of all
meetings and elections.

`3.7` — Each delegate should provide biennially (every two years) to all other
members a brief summary of expected activities in the field of radionuclide
metrology to be undertaken by his or her organisation in its new working year.
An associate whose organisation is not represented in ICRM should assume this
obligation in relation to his or her activities (See Note 5).

`3.8` — Each member should provide biennially to all other members copies of
progress reports and publications of his or her organisation which are relevant
to the objectives of ICRM (See Note 5).

`3.9` — Every member (delegate and associate) should provide and disseminate all
information related to ICRM activities in his or her organisation or country.

## 4. Organisation of ICRM

`4.1` — The delegates in a General Meeting [Section 7] constitute the supreme
authority of ICRM. But amendments to these bylaws are subject to the provisions
of Article 12.

`4.2` — The formal organisations of ICRM are: an Executive Board [Section 8],
that shall administer the affairs of ICRM; a Nominating Committee [Section 9]
that shall seek nominees to fill vacancies on the Executive Board and the
Nominating Committee; and Working Groups [Section 10] created by the delegate
members to carry out specific tasks for ICRM.

`4.3` — The Executive Board of ICRM shall comprise six officers, namely a
President, the immediate Past President, three Vice-Presidents and a Secretary.
The President and two Vice-Presidents shall be delegates; any member is eligible
to be elected to the office of Vice-President or Secretary; noting that

> `i)` at any time there should be four delegate members on the Board, and
>
> `ii)` members from the same organisation at a meeting of the Board shall cast
a single “organisational” vote.

`4.4` — ICRM shall not assume any financial or contractual responsibilities, nor
shall it be responsible for any consequence arising from its activities or those
of its members.

## 5. Organisational Membership

`5.1` — Notwithstanding any informal approach that may have been made, the
procedure for an organisation to join ICRM shall be according to the following
steps:

> `(a)` a proposal by a member by letter to the President or Secretary, that a
particular organisation having demonstrated (by publications and/or
participation in recent ICRM meetings) involvement in radionuclide metrology,
hereinafter called the “Organisation”, be invited to join ICRM;
>
> `(b)` approval of the proposal by majority vote of the delegate members at a
General Meeting;
>
> `(c)` letter to the Director or Head of the Organisation from the President or
Secretary inviting membership and to appoint a representative who shall serve as
its delegate to ICRM;
>
> `(d)` reply by letter to the President or Secretary from the Director or Head
of the Organisation accepting the invitation and giving the name of the person
appointed to serve as delegate to ICRM.

`5.2` — An organisation that is represented by a delegate shall be able, by
letter to the President or Secretary, to replace on a temporary or permanent
basis, the person appointed to serve in this capacity. The time at which the
change in representation shall come into effect and the period for which it
shall be effective shall be specified in the letter (See Note 6).

## 6. Election of Associate Members

`6.1` — Any member of ICRM may suggest by letter to the President or Secretary
the election to associate membership of any person by reason of his or her past
or anticipated special contributions to ICRM. At its discretion the Executive
Board may then propose this at a General Meeting and election shall be by
majority vote of delegate members at that meeting.

`6.2` — In accordance with clause 10.3, a newly elected working group
Coordinator who is not a member of ICRM shall be appointed to associate
membership during term in office by acclamation of the delegate members.

`6.3` — The term of associate membership shall not normally be restricted, but
any associate no longer willing or able to participate in the activities of ICRM
should so inform the Secretary by letter. An associate not serving as an officer
of ICRM nor engaged upon a specific task for ICRM, may be asked by the Secretary
to confirm his or her wish to continue as an associate member; in the absence
within one year of any positive response to this request, the membership shall
be deemed to have lapsed.

## 7. General Meetings

`7.1` — The Executive Board shall endeavour to convene a General Meeting of the
members of ICRM at least once in every two years. The time and place of the
meeting shall be proposed by the Executive Board and confirmed by vote of the
delegate members. Notice of the meeting shall be sent by letter to each member
from the Secretary not later than nine months prior to the date of the meeting.

`7.2` — The agenda for the General Meeting shall be proposed by the Executive
Board and approved by the delegates present at the meeting. The proposed agenda
should be distributed to members not later than two months before the meeting.

`7.3` — An Extraordinary General Meeting may, if deemed necessary, be called by
the Executive Board. Likewise such a meeting may be proposed, by letter to the
President or Secretary, by any two delegates. The decision to convene such a
meeting shall rest with the Executive Board which, in the event, shall also
choose its location and date.

`7.4` — The quorum for a General Meeting or an Extraordinary General Meeting
shall be twelve delegates or thirty per cent of the delegate membership,
whichever is larger.

## 8. Executive Board: Duties, Terms of Office, Nomination and Election

`8.1` — The Executive Board consists (Article 4.3) of a President, the immediate
Past President, three Vice-Presidents, and a Secretary.

`8.2` — The Executive Board may invite any member of ICRM to attend a meeting of
the Board for a specific purpose, e.g. to assist in the planning for a
forthcoming General Meeting.

`8.3` — The Executive Board shall endeavour to meet once a year.

`8.4` — The quorum for a meeting of the Executive Board shall be three. At any
meeting of the Executive Board there shall be a voting majority of delegate
members.

`8.5` — All decisions made at duly convened meetings of the Executive Board
shall be by agreement of a majority of members present, keeping in mind the
provision of Article 4.3(ii).

`8.6` — The President shall normally chair General Meetings of the members and
meetings of the Executive Board, and will coordinate the work of other officers
in accordance with the constitution and bylaws of ICRM.

`8.7` — The Vice-Presidents and the Secretary shall perform duties according to
these bylaws. If the President should be unable to perform his or her duties,
they shall be assumed during that disability by a Vice-President designated by
the President immediately after the latter is elected.

`8.8` — The Secretary shall give notice of and attend meetings of the Executive
Board and of the membership, and shall perform the duties of recording secretary
at such meetings. The Secretary shall perform such additional duties as may be
required of him or her in accordance with these bylaws. If the Secretary is
indisposed, the President shall appoint an ICRM member to serve as Secretary,
for such time as may be needed.

`8.9` — The President shall be elected for one term of two years and shall be
eligible for immediate re-election only once.

`8.10` — Each Vice-President shall be elected for a term of two years and shall
be eligible for immediate re-election only once.

`8.11` — The Secretary shall be elected for an initial term of two years, but
shall be eligible for immediate re-election regardless of the number of
consecutive terms in office which he or she has served.

`8.12` — A term in office of a member of the Executive Board or Nominating
Committee (Section 9), stated as a certain number of years, is understood as
extendable by a maximum of 6 months, if the sequence of General Meetings held in
concurrence with ICRM conferences so requires.

`8.13` — The election of officers to serve on the Executive Board and Nominating
Committee shall be carried out in accordance with Section 11 of this
constitution.

`8.14` — The Secretary shall inform all members by letter within four weeks of
the result of every election.

`8.15` — The Executive Board shall select and approve an Editor to maintain and
update a biennial ICRM Newsletter which shall be made available to all members
electronically.

## 9. Nominating Committee: Duties, Terms of Office, and Election

`9.1` — The aim of the Nominating Committee shall be to ensure the continuity of
purpose and vigour of ICRM by soliciting from the membership, and by itself
proposing, the names of eligible candidates to fill vacancies about to occur on
the Executive Board and the Nominating Committee.

`9.2` — The Nominating Committee shall comprise three persons elected from the
membership of ICRM, who shall not be members of the Executive Board. The
Secretary of ICRM shall serve as liaison between the Nominating Committee and
the Executive Board. The members of the Nominating Committee shall appoint one
of their members to act as Chairman of their committee. The appointee shall
identify himself or herself to the Secretary within four weeks of the most
recent election to the Nominating Committee. The Chairman shall coordinate the
work of the Committee.

`9.3` — The duty of the Nominating Committee shall be to prepare a list of
candidates who have agreed in writing to be nominated to stand for election to
any office becoming vacant on the Executive Board or Nominating Committee.

`9.4` — The Chairman of the Nominating Committee shall notify all members of
ICRM, by letter sent to be received not later than two months before the date of
an election, of any forthcoming vacancies on the Executive Board and Nominating
Committee. The list of candidates already nominated by the Nominating Committee
[Article 9.3] to fill these vacancies shall be sent at the same time, together
with an invitation to the members to submit further nominations to the
Nominating Committee, not later than one month before the date of the election.
The final list of candidates shall be sent to all ICRM members at least two
weeks prior to the election.

`9.5` — Each member of the Nominating Committee shall hold office for a term of
four years. Members shall be eligible for immediate re-election only once.

## 10. Working Groups and Committees of ICRM

`10.1` — There shall be working groups or other committees established by
majority vote of the delegate members at a General Meeting.

`10.2` — Each working group of ICRM shall be established, initially for a period
of two years, and for a specific purpose which is consistent with the objectives
of ICRM.

`10.3` — A Coordinator for each working group shall be chosen by majority vote
of the delegates. If the elected Coordinator is not already a member of ICRM, he
or she shall automatically be an associate member during term in office.

`10.4` — The need for the continuation of existing working groups shall be
reviewed every two years by the delegates at a General Meeting on the basis of a
written status report prepared by the Coordinator of the working group and
circulated with the provisional agenda [Section 7.2].

`10.5` — The Coordinator of each working group shall plan the work of the group,
and may appoint qualified persons, who need not be members of ICRM, to his
working group.

`10.6` — In the event of a within-term resignation of a working group
Coordinator, the Executive Board shall appoint an interim replacement in
accordance with Article 11.5.

## 11. Election of ICRM Officers

`11.1` — Any member of ICRM may nominate a candidate to fill any vacant ICRM
office after having first obtained his or her agreement in writing. All such
nominations shall be sent to reach a member of the Nominating Committee at least
one month before the date of the election. If a vacancy should be created after
the deadline of one month before the date of election including at the General
Meeting itself, and by virtue of Article 4.1, any member shall have the right to
propose, at that General Meeting, a candidate for election to the vacated
office.

`11.2` — If only one candidate has been nominated for a given office, his or her
election shall be formally approved by the delegates at a General Meeting or, in
the absence of a General Meeting, by the Executive Board.

`11.3` — If more than one candidate has been nominated for a given office, the
election shall be by secret, if necessary mailed, ballot (See Note 4) of the
delegates arranged by the Secretary.

`11.4` — If more than one position as Vice-President or member of the Nominating
Committee are vacant, separate elections per vacant position shall be held.

`11.5` — In the event that any office becomes vacant before expiry of the term,
a temporary appointment to run until the next General Meeting shall be made by
the Executive Board. Such temporary service as an officer shall not constitute a
term in office as defined elsewhere in these bylaws.

`11.6` — Where the result of an election to office in ICRM is declared at a
General Meeting or at a meeting of the Executive Board, the term in office shall
commence at the conclusion of that meeting. In all other cases the term shall
begin on the day following the election.

## 12. Amendments

This ICRM constitution and these bylaws, apart from the Notes, may be amended,
repealed or altered, in whole or in part, by a two-thirds majority vote of the
delegate members at a General Meeting of ICRM, provided that a copy of any
proposed amendment has been sent by letter to each delegate at least sixty days
prior to the date which has been announced for the meeting. Amendment of the
Notes may be proposed at a General Meeting without prior notice and adopted by
majority vote.

## Notes  <!-- omit in toc -->

1. Under normal circumstances and by consensus, English is the preferred
   language for the conduct of the business and other activities of ICRM.

2. Except where specified elsewhere in these bylaws majority voting at meetings
   of ICRM will normally be by a show of hands, unless a secret ballot
   is requested by one quarter of the delegate members present. Persons to count
   the votes shall be appointed by the presiding officer if needed.

3. “Letter” in these bylaws shall mean a written message communicated by mail
   (physical or electronic).

4. A secret mailed ballot shall be carried out as follows: The Chairman of the
   Nominating Committee shall prepare ballot forms listing each office for which
   an election is required, and the name, organisation and country of each
   candidate. These forms are then mailed to each delegate member at least two
   weeks before the date announced for the election. Each delegate, having
   recorded his or her vote, shall return the ballot form by mail, or in person,
   to the Secretary in time to reach that officer no later than at the date
   of the election.

   The Secretary and a member of ICRM or, lacking that, another colleague
   “of good repute” shall tally the votes, certify the results and send them
   to all other members of the Executive Board for their confirmation and
   resolution of any tied vote. The same quorum as for a General Meeting
   (Article 7.4) shall apply. The results of the election should be sent by the
   Secretary to the members of ICRM within two weeks. In the event of a tied
   vote, only delegates on the Executive Board shall be entitled to vote.

5. The ICRM Newsletter specified in clause 8.15 of these bylaws shall
contain:

   (a) the reports from members required under clauses 3.7 and 3.8 of the
   bylaws;

   (b) a biennial (every two years) report from each of the working group
   Coordinators;

   (c) other information about ICRM that the Executive Board, in consultation
   with the Editor, shall consider to be useful to members.

   (d) For a temporary replacement at a particular General Meeting, a letter
   of the organisation’s permanent delegate to the President or Secretary
   of ICRM is sufficient.
