---
title: Conferences
layout: default
nav_order: 2
has_children: false
---

## Conferences

Plenary meetings of the ICRM are held biennially and have developed into
scientific ICRM conferences, a successful instrument of communication among
various specialists, truly encouraging international co-operation. The most
recent in the series of ICRM meetings, the “23rd International Conference
on Radionuclide Metrology and its Applications, ICRM 2023”, was hosted from
27-31 March 2023 by the Horia Hulubei National Institute for Physics and Nuclear
Engineering (IFIN-HH) in Bucharest, Romania. Proceedings have been published,
and select articles are available electronically on ScienceDirect. Additional
papers will be published in the ICRM Technical Series (Issue 3) on Radionuclide
Metrology, ISSN 2522–4328, to be available later in 2024.

The next (24th) international conference, ICRM 2025, organized by the LNE-LNHB
in Paris, France, will provide opportunities to have breakout meetings
in smaller rooms and to implement strategies to encourage interactions with
poster authors during poster sessions. The conference will also include oral and
poster presentations covering aspects of international metrology,
intercomparisons, measurement standards and reference materials, radionuclide
metrology techniques, alpha-particle and beta-particle spectrometry, gamma-ray
spectrometry, liquid scintillation counting techniques, nuclear decay data,
low-level measurement techniques, radionuclide metrology in life sciences,
source preparation techniques, and quality assurance and uncertainty evaluation
in radioactivity measurements, together with working group meetings that will
offer a less formal opportunity for scientific discussions. The contact persons
of the local organizing committee Mark Kellet
(<mark.kellett@cea.fr>), Marie-Christine Lépy
(<marie-christine.lepy@cea.fr>), and Sylvain
Leblond (<sylvain.leblond@cea.fr>). More details
will be available on the ICRM 2025 conference website later in 2024.

The “22nd International Conference on Radionuclide Metrology and its
Applications, ICRM 2019”, was hosted from 27–31 May 2019 by the University
of Salamanca in Salamanca, Spain. The major part of the proceedings of ICRM 2019
were published as a Special Section in Applied Radiation and Isotopes, Vol. 166
(December 2020) and other issues of ARI; additional papers were published in the
Proceedings in the [ICRM Technical Series on Radionuclide
Metrology](./technical-series/icrm-technical-series-01.pdf) (Issue 2), ISSN
2522-4328.

The “21st International Conference on Radionuclide Metrology and its
Applications, ICRM 2017”, was hosted from 15–19 May 2017 by the National Atomic
Energy Commission (CNEA) in Buenos Aires, Argentina. The major part of the
proceedings of ICRM 2017 were published as a special issue of Applied Radiation
and Isotopes, Vol. 134 (April 2018) 1–482, and three additional papers were
published in the Proceedings part II in the new [ICRM Technical Series
on Radionuclide Metrology](./technical-series/icrm-technical-series-01.pdf) ISSN
2522-4328.

The “20th International Conference on Radionuclide Metrology and its
Applications, ICRM 2015”, was hosted from 8 to 12 June 2015 by the Bundesamt für
Eich- und Vermessungswesen (BEV) in Vienna, Austria. The proceedings of ICRM
2015 were published as special issue of Applied Radiation and Isotopes, Vol. 109
(March 2016) 1–576.

The “19th International Conference on Radionuclide Metrology and its
Applications, ICRM 2013”, was hosted by the JRC-IRMM (European Commission, Joint
Research Centre, Institute for Reference Materials and Measurements) from 17
to 21 June 2013 in Antwerp, Belgium. The proceedings of ICRM 2013 were published
in Applied Radiation and Isotopes, Vol. 87 (May 1) 1–488.

The “18th International Conference on Radionuclide Metrology and its
Applications, ICRM 2011”, was hosted by the NMIJ/AIST (National Metrology
Institute of Japan, Advanced Industrial Science and Technology) from 19 to 23
September 2011 in Tsukuba, Japan. The proceedings of ICRM 2011 were published
in Applied Radiation and Isotopes 70, 9 (Sept. 2012) 1809–2274.

The “17th International Conference on Radionuclide Metrology and its
Applications” was hosted by the SMU (Slovak Institute of Metrology) in
Bratislava, Slovakia from September 7 to 11, 2009. The proceedings were
published in Applied Radiation and Isotopes 68, 7–8 (2010) 1193–1594.

The “16th International Conference on Radionuclide Metrology and its
Applications”, September 3–7, 2007, was hosted by the National Metrology
Institute of South Africa (NMISA) at the Arrabella Sheraton in Cape Town, South
Africa. The local organization was undertaken by the NMISA, Pretoria, South
Africa, and the proceedings of ICRM 2007 were published in Applied Radiation and
Isotopes 66, 6–7 (2008) 677–1066.

In addition to the biennial meetings, the various Working Groups of the ICRM
hold interim meetings of particular interest to the specific community.
